Today is an extraordinary day, one you will remember for a long, long time.
The day when you walked into an auditorium as students walked out as missionaries with
an exciting assignment ahead of you, and it's understandable if in moments like this you're
thinking to yourself, will I be happy, will I be effective, and that's natural.
So a big part of the answer to that question will lie in the matter of balance, now balance
is a difficult concept to explain or describe, but fortunately there's a lovely passage
of scripture that helps us.
Let's go to Galatians chapter 6 and verse 2.
The Apostle Paul writes there, go on carrying the burdens of one another and in this way you
will fulfill the law of the Christ.
Those words should jump out at us, this is amazing, we get to fulfill the law of the Christ.
How?
By carrying the burdens of others.
So how will you do that in your assignment?
Much of what you do will be following in the footsteps of people like the Apostle Paul.
For example, Paul helped people who had gotten involved in wrongdoing as an elder.
You may do something similar.
The Paul was involved in relief efforts when natural disasters such as famine afflicted
God's people.
Above all, Paul wanted to help lift the burden of ignorance, people who had been blinded
by the God of this system of things and you have the privilege of doing something similar.
However did Paul also say that it's possible to go a little too far and lose balance?
He implies that it is because if you go down to verse 5, he says something a little bit
in contrast.
He says, for each one will carry his own load.
Now is he contradicting what he just said?
Of course not, we know he's inspired.
And in fact, he used two different words.
So in verse 2, the word burden, our study note says, this refers to heavy things, troublesome
things, things that are difficult to bear without some kind of assistance.
Whereas here in verse 5, he uses the word load.
In the study note, there says that it involves the personal load of responsibility to God that
each Christian is expected to carry.
In Bible times, it was sometimes used in a military context to refer to the pack that a soldier
might carry.
Roman soldiers were trained to carry very, very heavy pack, heavier preps that they would
use in wartime and that would make them ready for the rigors of warfare.
Now imagine a soldier who out of kindness wants to carry not only his own pack, but the
pack of the soldier next to him and the soldier on the other side.
You can see he wouldn't last long and would he be helping his fellow soldiers?
Actually, he would be depriving them of the training they needed in order to be safe
in battle.
Sometimes children are taught a similar lesson about balance and not going too far in
helping someone else or something else.
In the classroom, the teacher might have a little terrarium.
In the terrarium is a branch hanging from the branches a little chrysalis and the kids
are all excited to see the butterfly emerge from that chrysalis.
When the day comes though, they might get a little disturbed because it takes a long
time and the butterfly really seems to struggle for hours and hours.
Now if a well-meaning child wants to put his hand inside the terrarium and help the butterfly
out of the chrysalis, what does the teacher say?
Don't do that.
I know you mean well, but you may actually kill him.
He explains that the butterfly by struggling his way out of the chrysalis develops strength
in his wings.
Without that, he may never fly.
He may therefore die as a result.
So it's possible for us, too, sometimes to want to do more than we should and actually
go past the point of carrying the burdens of others and moving into carrying their load
that they need to carry.
Jehovah's organization understands this principle beautifully, applies it in so many contexts.
I remember dear friend, a former missionary in Western Africa was telling me about a relief
work there and he was so impressed with how the branch handled it.
Refugees were flooding over the border from a war-torn country and the branch provided
them with food, shelter, clothing, but they also provided them as time went on with food
staples.
They could use to do a little business.
They could make food items to sell in local markets.
So the gradually they were able to assume once again their own load of responsibilities.
So let's consider how we might apply this.
Let's look at three examples of where we might have thinking going through our mind that
not necessarily wrong, but it might just set off a little balance alert.
I should check my balance.
Example one, I can change their hearts.
Have you ever had that return visit or that Bible student you cared so much about and
you tried so many different ways and techniques to help the person to grow to love Jehovah
and they just don't seem to budge?
We might start getting at our head that we need to change their heart for them.
Remember though Jesus when he spoke to that rich young ruler and remember he told him
what he needed to do and yet the man went away sad.
Do we imagine Jesus chasing after him, cajoling him, trying a new technique and knew he did
let him go?
Jesus understood a basic principle.
It's Jehovah God who works with the person to change their heart.
He didn't view that as his assignment.
He didn't view it in other words as his job to bring people into the truth.
I remember dear older brother, I knew as a teenager, he studied with me in fact.
And if every year someone sort of puffed their chest up and say I brought so and so into
the truth, he would quietly just say really was that Jehovah's week off?
His point came across pretty clearly.
So there's a lovely balancing principle.
When we're thinking I can change someone's heart, remember what Paul wrote under inspiration.
I planted a polished water but God kept making it grow.
Example number two, I can carry their guilt.
Have you ever had it happen that someone wanted you to feel bad for a sin that they themselves
committed?
Sometimes it's human nature to try to shift blame in that way.
It goes back to Adam, remember him having the audacity to say to Jehovah God, it's this
woman you gave me.
Or think of King Ahab, first king's 18, after the nation had suffered a three and a half
year drought because of his sin leading the nation into idolatry.
And he sees Elijah the prophet, what does he say?
Is it you, the bringer of great trouble on Israel?
Now did Elijah respond by saying, well Ahab you have a point, I'm not the best prophet.
No, no, he said I have not brought trouble on Israel, but you have.
You went following Bale.
If someone wants their sin to be your fault, don't carry that load.
Remember a beautiful balancing principle, Ezekiel 18 verse 20.
The wickedness of the wicked one is accounted to him alone.
Here's a third example, I can solve their problems.
It's true, we can do a lot to help people with their problems, isn't it true sometimes
those problems are burdens that we can help them carry.
But we might have a little balance alert, just go off and ask ourselves a couple of questions.
First perhaps, is it really a problem?
Think of the example of Mary, Lazarus sister.
Now she gave Jesus a very expensive gift, right, this costly perfumed oil.
And some of the disciples, even apostles apparently, were not happy about it.
Matthew 26 says the disciples were indignant.
Mark used an even stronger word, he said they were greatly annoyed.
One lexicon says that that word could actually be translated also as snort or bellow.
Maybe you think more of an enraged farm animal than a loving apostle.
Why were they so upset, had Mary sinned?
No, in fact Jesus said that what she'd done was a fine thing.
It was beautiful in his eyes.
So what was it?
They questioned her judgment.
Was it really their place?
Was it really a problem?
In fact, John writing six years later reveals it who might have led them into that mistake.
Judas Iscariot has mentioned as the one speaking there, and the study note mentions that
maybe he was the one that they just agreed with and were convinced by.
In any case, they needed to remember the beautiful balancing principle that Jesus gave.
Matthew 7-1, stop judging.
The second question we might ask also, is it my place to get involved with this problem
or to help fix this problem?
Remember the man who interrupted Jesus?
He was giving a beautiful spiritual talk, and a man called out, tell my brother to divide
the inheritance with me.
How did Jesus respond?
Did he say, well, you've come to the right place, I have the finest judicial mind on the
planet?
No.
No, he understood that his assignment had limits given to him by his father, and it didn't
include settling these family disputes.
So he said, who appointed me as judge or arbitrator over you persons?
Jesus was showing modesty.
He understood the limits that Jehovah had given him.
So there's a beautiful balancing principle, again, Micah 6 verse 8, walk modestly with
your God.
So in conclusion, the question, will you be happy, will you be effective?
Of course you will.
You'll struggle to maintain your balance with such principles in mind.
And you remember, of course, that when Jesus said, take my yoke upon you, he might have
been implying that you get under the yoke with him.
In any case, you know that your Master Jesus will be helping you to carry your load.
You know that Jehovah God will be helping you to carry your load.
They will always be there to help you carry your own load.